so my hope is to engage us in a deeper
conversation about race racism society
in our future but really I also want to
challenge us to understand the deeper
implications of black lives matter
because many people know my you know my
work as a co-founder of black lives
matter it's time for se of all the
conversation as we know from one that
dispels the myths and the rumors about
marijuana being a menace in our society
to one that reminds us about the
medicine that marijuana is the power and
the ability to transform our lives and
we know that all communities love and
benefits we love it when we're talking
about I mean literally we've spoken all
day about this and we've talked about
the myriad benefits right from the
healing aspects to the access a deal
with anxiety
we talked also about the potential right
we talked about flow state and the
ability we have to transform our very
beings to to perform at our optimal
state and that is I feel so profound so
necessary and where I hope that we can
all move you've just heard the
co-founder of black lives matter making
the statement that marijuana is a
crucial part of the progress of
democracy and social justice in our
times
you heard her make a statement that it's
a necessary precondition for achieving
your optimal state as a human being
whatever that means whatever that may
mean to her I can't imagine who we just
pause and reflect on how ridiculous this
would sound if we've replaced marijuana
with the name of any other sedative with
any other recreational drug or with any
other addictive drug because marijuana
is all three
it is a sedative is a recreational drug
and it is an addictive drug and it does
also cause brain damage wouldn't it
sound ridiculous if the leader of
blacklivesmatter
were endorsing the recreational use of
opiates of xanax even of alcohol even of
beer and whiskey claiming that you
needed any of these drugs in order to
achieve your optimal state in order to
make progress with democracy and social
justice transform our very beings to
perform at our optimal state it would
sound laughs out loud
hilarious but somehow this one
particular sedative marijuana still has
this strange halo surrounding it on the
left wing I would say especially because
of the legacy of specific
african-american and new world movements
like Rastafarians 'm the influence of
restive Aryan ism yes in Jamaica but
even more in the Unites States America I
think there is a sense in which
marijuana is still thought of as somehow
a rebellious and revolutionary drug and
the reality is that now with the
progress of modern medical science we
know more clearly and specifically than
ever that marijuana does indeed cause
brain damage quote our study
demonstrates a pattern of gray matter of
volume changes in a group of regular
cannabis users compared with a group of
occasional ones just an interesting note
everyone who participated in the study
was age 19 to a JH 29 so there were no
effects in the brain here old age or
other cumulative habits over many years
regular users exhibit a decrease in gray
matter volume if the medial temporal
cortex temporal Pole parahippocampal
gyrus left insula and orbital frontal
context cortex
I'm not a brain surgeon I'm not let me
ask you in the audience if I hadn't
struggled to pronounce the different
parts of the human brain there do you
think any of you would have just felt
comfortable with marijuana causing brain
damage was marijuana marijuana causing
the loss of very matter in in just some
parts of the brain and not others was
there anyone in the audience who is
sitting there thinking hmm okay the
temporal cortex temporal Pole that I can
live with that's no problem but wait a
minute it causes brain damage also in
the orbital frontal cortex okay forget
it I'm out okay now I'm gonna take this
seriously guys now I'm gonna quit
smoking marijuana before the first four
or five parts of the brain you mentioned
being damaged by marijuana that I was
cool with but not that last cortex that
was one cortex too many and I actually
believe can be one of the critical
vehicles for the 21st century to help us
in transforming this world so that we
can have a democracy that works for all
of us I believe that we have an
opportunity for us to live up to the
change that we talked about we talked
about you know this conference and even
this convening being one that is
recognizing that cannabis is a catalyst
for change and I believe that cows can
be a catalyst for social change and
social good so that is where I will
close it's estimated 9% of cannabis
users will develop an addiction or
dependency which is less than alcohol
and nicotine but for those who start
talking as teenagers
it's about 17% I gotta tell you it's a
very psychological addiction when you
stop it's some physical addiction
there's some physical I mean you stop
sleeping you get the chills you get body
aches you get restless leg syndrome
restless leg syndrome is the worst part
of it I would say I have no patients I
have my tempers through the roof and
that is not like me I
there's sleep is out the window for
about sleep I'm not sleeping for about
three days until my body crashes and
then I'll sleep for about four hours and
then that'll be my sleep for the next
three days until I crash again and the
metal like and that and food is
definitely out the window don't want to
heat food at all appetite is gone at
fifteen it meant everything by the time
high school was over Vanessa Markov and
her friends were smoking pot every day
Markov admits she probably wouldn't have
listened to anyone's advice but she
regrets spending more than a decade of
her life in a drug-induced haze
I was extremely lethargic I went from
being an athlete to being a couch potato
as a kid I absolutely didn't think it
was addictive because no one had ever
talked about it being addictive these
changes strongly correlated with the
monthly frequency of cannabis use in the
three months before inclusion in the
study specifically significant gray
matter atrophy can occur either with a
heavy cannabis consumption independent
of the age of first use or with
recreational consumption that started
during adolescence before the age of
eighteen neuropsychopharmacology come on
that's a journal nobody can even spell
the title it's a terrible name for a
journal how are you gonna sell any
copies on newsstands with a title like
that yeah well it's a respectable
peer-reviewed journal that's what I was
quoting before and that's what I'm
interested in quoting again our findings
corroborate
several animal studies adding evidence
that the duration of exposure to
cannabis is indeed associated with
localized volume reduction in regions
rich in cb1 receptors correlating with
the amount of cannabis used let me just
let me just emphasize here mmm
volume volume it doesn't mean doesn't
mean they're turning down the volume in
the brain it's not it's not about sound
here okay localized volume reduction
that's talking about the actual
shrinkage of lobes of the brain okay
the loss of gray matter being visible as
shrinking hemispheres of the brain shall
we say continue our position here the
aggression of them a long-term exposure
to drugs toward the development of
substance use disorders and addictive
behaviors is often associated with
deficits in decision-making in this
regard it has been demonstrated that
substance dependent individuals in
patients with vmPFC lesions exhibit
similar behaviors that lead them to make
similar decisions in real life
preferring choices that bring immediate
benefits even if coupled with negative
consequences thoughts so what they're
saying here is the type of brain damage
they have proven proven marijuana to
cause it doesn't just show up in a brain
scan on a computer screen down at the
hospital it's also evident in changes in
human behavior in the types of decisions
15 years later she found herself in a
doctor's office pleading for help with
multiple mental health issues I just
started to have extreme panic attacks
and very high anxiety brutal social
anxiety to the point where I had to be
either drunk or high in order to really
relate to people or feel comfortable in
my own skin um one day do I want to not
do smoke marijuana and just be sober
absolutely do I think I can I don't know
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know